<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ev="http://www.w3.org/2001/xml-events" xml:lang="es" lang="es">

    <head>
        <title>Kumbh Mela: Finding Peace in the world’s largest human gathering</title>
        <link href="Style_SO.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2 class="titp">Acknowledgements</h2>
        <div class="intro">
<p>This paper is the result of long (and certainly diverse) chain of happenings and people that have shaped the last two years of my life. First and foremost I want to thank my family for all the selfless support and understanding provided to me during my time in India. Without them and their advices I wouldn’t have had the chance to find this gathering.</p> 
<p>My sincere gratitude to my friends from the community of the Malaviya Centre for Peace Research, Banaras Hindu University: faculty members, administratives, research scholars, my fellow classmates, and especially Prof. Priyankar Upadhyaya for his invaluable lessons on life and dreams.</p>
<p>My respect and appreciation to all those who accompanied me in body and spirit during this pilgrimage: Vrinda Dar and the Kautilya Society, my hosts during the Kumbh Mela. The inspiring friends I made on the way; the humble pilgrims; my knowingly or unknowingly informers and; the Giri Pariwar particularly to Naga Baba Jai Giri Bapu and his disciple Naga Baba Munna Giri who, been aware of my polyvalent approach to the Kumbh Mela and their dhuni, decided to open the door to their world, meanings and rituals which I will never forget. Om namo Narayan.</p>
</div>
    </body>
</html>
