<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ev="http://www.w3.org/2001/xml-events" xml:lang="es" lang="es">

    <head>
        <title>Kumbh Mela: Finding Peace in the world’s largest human gathering</title>
        <link href="Style_SO.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
    <h2 class="titp">Appendix</h2>
        <p><a id="apendix.html" href="../part1themyth.html#back_apendix.html">Appendix 1</a>: Skanda Purana (English Version). Tr. Giorgio Bonazzoli in: Bonazzoli, G. “Prayaga and Kumbha Mela”</p>

<p>[1] “And now I shall tell the excellent appearance of the Kumbha. In the northern side of the Himalaya there is a sea whose name is Ksiroda (Milk Ocean).</p>
<p>[2] Once there the Devas amd Danavas began the churning of the ocean. They put (the mountain) Mandara as churning-stick, (the serprent) Vasuki as string to whirl round the churning-stick.</p>
<p>[3] Established the tortoise (Kurma) at the bottom and Visnu’s arms on the Mandara. All the Devas stood on one side and those who had Bali as their head (the Danavas) on another side.</p>
<p>[4] There, when this Ksiroda, the best of the oceans was churned, first all poison appeared, which was eaten by Sambhu (Shiva).</p>
<p>[5] Now, when the world reached its full welfare, were produced these those that today are called great jewels.</p>
<p>[6] First the excellent self-moving aerial car (Vimana Puspaka, having a swan for conveyance), the elephant Airavata and the tree Parijata (the coral tree or Erythrina indica)</p>
<p>[7] And among them Rambha, excellent in dancing, playing on the vina, and the best gem called Kaustubha and also the waxing moon.</p>
<p>[8] Ear-rings and a bow, and the five auspicious cows as well, namely, Laksmi, Surupa and Surabhi.</p>
<p>[9] Uccaihsrava sprang up together and Laksmi having beautiful complexion and the Deva Dhanvatari, Visvakarman conversant with arts.</p>
<p>[10] And a pitcher was produced shining in Dhanvantari’s hands, full with nectar up to the brim, attracting indeed everybody’s mind.</p>
<p>[11.12] Jayanta, of great power and strength, having seen the pitcher come forth out of the compassion of the lotus-like foot of the invincible (Visnu), produced by the agitation of the ocean of milk, having the best of the jewels at its top, instigated by the Devas took immediately the nectar and ran away.</p>
<p>[13] Then the daityas, distressed by the sights of the Naga (Vasuki), having considered thoroughly the action of the Devas, informed by Sukra, chief priest of the daityas.</p>
<p>[14] Went following on his heels. He, been pressed, afraid, ran away in the ten directions, for 12 days and nights.</p>
<p>[15] The nectar was taken by the daityas out of his hand and again (recovered) by him. They angrily quarreled, ‘I will drink it first’; ‘Not you’,</p>
<p>[16] While the descendants of Kasyapa were thus discussing for the seizing of the nectar, the Lord having bewildered them by means of Mohini distributed the nectar.</p>
<p>[17] In whatever place of the earth the pitcher fell during the quarrelling of the descendants of Kasyapa, there then is called Kumbhaparvan.</p>
<p>[18] The pitcher, which was made to fall by the daityas who has their spirits seized by quarrel, urged by Sukra, was protected by Guru (Jupiter), Indu (Moon), Arka (Sun) and his son (Saturn).</p>
<p>[19] The moon gave protection from the flowing forth, the Sun from breaking, Jupiter from the daityas, Saturn from the fear of Devendra’s son (Jayanta).</p>
<p>[20] In the year in which there is conjunction of the Sun, Moon and Jupiter in that (Kumbha) constellation, there is the Kumbhparva in the place where the Kumbha’s nectar has fallen; in no other occasion.</p>
<p>[21] As 12 days of the devas are 12 years of the mortals, so the Kumbhaparvan are 12 by number. (And the 12 Kumbhaparvans derive from the 12 days of the devas i.e. twelve years of the mortals).</p>
<p>[22] Four Kumbhas are know here in the land of Bharata for the removal of men’s sins and eight in other world approachable by devas and not by others.</p>
<p>[23] The man, who goes to them (Kumbhaparvans) during the conjunction, partakes in the immortality. The devas bow don to those who are there, as the poor bow down to the rich.</p>
<p>[24] The division of the Kumbhayoga on earth is fourfold, at Visnudvara (Haridvara), Tirtharaja (Prayaga), Avanti (Ujjayini), Godavari’s bank (Nasik). It is known as Kumbhaparvan because drops of nectar were thrown.”</p>
    </body>
</html>
