<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ev="http://www.w3.org/2001/xml-events" xml:lang="es" lang="es">

        <title>Kumbh Mela: Finding Peace in the world’s largest human gathering</title>
        <link href="Style_SO.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2 class="titp">Bibliography</h2>
<ul>
<li>Baudrillard, Jean “La illusion del Fin [The illusion of the end]” Anagrama, BCN, 2004
Beal, Samuel “Buddhist records of the Western World” Harvard University Press, 1886, (Digitalized 2008) Electronic Version available at: <a href="http://books.google.co.in/books/about/buddhist_records_of_the_western_world.html?id=kporAAAAYAAJ&amp;redir_esc=y">books.google.co.in</a></li>
<li>Bonazzoli, Giorgio “Prayaga and the Kumbha Mela” In D.P. Dubey (Ed.) <b>Kumbha Mela: Pilgrimage to the Greatest Cosmic Fair</b> Society of Pilgrimage Studies, Allahabad, 2001Pg. 85 - 123</li>
<li>Dubey, D.P. (Editor) “Kumbha Mela: Pilgrimage to the Greatest Cosmic Fair” Society of Pilgrimage Studies, Allahabad, 2001, 121 Pp.
Dubey, D. P. “Prayaga: The Site of Kumbha Mela (In Temporal and Traditional Space)” Aryan Books International, New Delhi , 2001</li>
<li>Eck, Diana “India: A Sacred Geography” Harmony Books, NY, 2012</li>
<li>Eliade, Mircea “Cosmos and History The myth of the eternal return” (Tr. William R. Trask) Harper Torchbooks, New York, 1959, 176 Pp.</li>
<li>____________ “Myths, Dreams and Mysteries”, (Tr. Philip Mairet), Harvil Press, London, 1960</li>
<li>____________ “Yoga Immortality and Freedom” (Tr. Willard R. Trask) Bollingen Series/Princeton, NY, 1958, 529 Pp.</li>
<li>Fernandez, Edna “Holy Warriors: A journey inside India’s fundamentalism” Pilgrims Books, New Delhi, 2006.</li>
<li>Ghurye, G.S. “Indian Sadhus” Popular Prakashan, Bombay, [1995] 1953</li>
<li>Gupta, S.L. “Kumbh Mela: An Interpretation” in D.P. Dubey Mela: <b>Pilgrimage to the Greatest Cosmic Fair</b> Society of Pilgrimage Studies, Allahabad, 2001 Pp. 63-70</li>
<li>Hausner, Sondra L. “Wandering with Sadhus: Ascetics in the Hindu Himalayas” Cambridge UP, New Delhi, 2012, 243 Pp.</li>
<li>Krasa, Miloslav “Kumbha Mela: The greatest Pilgrimage of the World” in D.P. Dubey (Ed.) (Op.Cit.)Pp. 71-84</li>
<li>Llewellyn, J.E.   “Kumbh Mela: Festival of Discord” 1999 Unpublished Mp. Available at: 
Maclean, Kama “Making the Colonial state work for you: The modern beginnings of the ancient” in: <b>The Journal of Asian Studies</b>; Aug 2003, 62, 3 ABI/INFORM Global Pp. 873 - 905</li>
<li>______________ “Pilgrimage and Power” Oxford UP. 2008, 344 Pp.</li>
<li>______________ “Seeing, being seen, and not being seen Pilgrimage, Tourism, and Layers of Looking at the Kumbh Mela” in <b>Crosscurrents</b> Sept. 2009 Pp. 319 - 341</li>
<li>Manu “The Laws of Manu” (Tr. George Bhuler) Sacred Books of the east Vol. 25, 1885 Full text available in: <a href="http://www.bergen.edu/phr/121/ManuGC.pdf">bergen.edu</a></li>
<li>Narayan, Badri “The Kumbh is not a political Tamasha” In <b>he Hindu</b> (Op. Ed. Sec.) March 6,2013 Available at: <a href="http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/the-kumbh-is-not-a-political-tamasha/article4479455.ece">thehindu.com</a></li>
<li>Nehrur, Lal Jawarahal “Discover India” Day 5</li>
<li>Lannoy, Richard “Benares A world within a world” Indica Books, Varanasi, 2002 419 Pp.</li>
<li>Owen, David Lloyd “A well-connected festival offers an insight into India’s sanitation challenges“ In <b>Global Water Intelligence</b> Vol. 14, Issue 3 (March 2013) Electronic version available at: <a href="http://www.globalwaterintel.com/archive/14/3/analysis/david-lloyd-owen-well-connected-festival-offers-insight-indias-sanitation-challenges.html">globalwaterintel.com</a></li>
<li>Schechner, Richard “Between Theater and Antrophology” University of Pensylvania Press, Philadelphia, 1985</li>
<li>Sen, Amartya “Split India” in Frontline Volume 18 - Issue 22, Oct. 27 - Nov. 09, 2001 Available at: <a href="http://www.flonnet.com/fl1822/18220040.htm">flonnet.com</a></li>
<li>Singh, Rana P.B “Politics and Pilgrimage in North India: Varanasi between <i>communitas</i> and contestation” in Tourism Vol. 59 N. 3/2011 P. 287-304</li>
<li>Sugden, Joanna “How the Kumbh Mela Crowds Are Counted” Wall Street Journal –<b>India Realtime Blog</b>. Feb 2, 2013. Available at: <a href="http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2013/02/02/how-the-kumbh-mela-crowds-are-counted/">blogs.wsj.com</a></li>
<li>Sharma, Vijay; Bhadula, Sushil and Joshi, B. D.  “Impact of Mass Bathing on water quality of Ganga River during Maha Kumbh-2010” in <b>Nature and Science</b>, 2012;10(6) Available at: <a href="http://www.sciencepub.net/nature/ns1006/001_8615ns1006_1_5.pdf">sciencepub.net</a></li>
<li>Tully, Mark “The Kumbh Mela” Indica Books, Varanasi, 1991, 80 Pgs.</li>
<li>Turner, Victor. “The Ritual Process: Structure and Anti-Structure.” Aldine Publishing Co., Chicago 1969</li>
</ul>
    

</body></html>
