<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ev="http://www.w3.org/2001/xml-events" xml:lang="es" lang="es">

    <head>
        <title>Kumbh Mela: Finding Peace in the world’s largest human gathering</title>
        <link href="Style_SO.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2 class="titp">Preface</h2>
        <div class="intro">
<p>Every twelve years, millions of people remembering the myth of the churning of the milk gather in the confluence of Ganga-Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati Rivers in Allahabad, UP. Over six weeks, and certainly not without an enormous effort and mastership, a complete service-provided city with a permanent population the size of Berlin will emerge from the recently dried up sand and will host innumerable pilgrims from all over India and abroad. Defying adverse conditions and usually undertaking voluntarily severe penances these pilgrims perform rituals of long forgotten origins, trace their ancestors history through the files of local river-side priests and pay respect to colorful ascetics that cluster together for what they regard as the last trace of their former glory in order to create deeds for their path towards liberation.  A temporal society with an speciphic set of norms, rules and behaviors materializes over 55 days which suggests the feeling of been far away from the normal flow of time and space.</p>
<p>The nature of this topic might raise some questions regarding its relevance to the contemporary peace studies which largely focuses on the real politik issues of our times or the approaches taken by the structural, management or even idealist theories provided to solve them. However, coming from a background where this debates and conditions form part of the everyday life I must say that the last years spent in India and its huge tradition of pilgrimages have provided a fresh approach of the meaning of peace and the means to achieve it. Peace indeed has a significant component of subjectivity yet, is contagious and the participation in these exercises of collective devotion can provide healthy inputs for those whose use to think that the advance of the modern-rational society is not only unstoppable but also in a path of collision. This mindsets portray magic-devotional practices as valuable yet useless relics from the past.</p>
<p>However, what is the Kumbh Mela today? An ephemeral world in its own with intricate rituals, war-time logistics, multiple layers of governance and ad hoc distributive regimes? A multi-million economic driver fueled by a syncretism that breeds from multiple cultures and religions? A shifting space where hundreds of thousands of solitary wanderers meet?  A single, yet massive environmental blow and a consequent threat for national and international human security?  An increasingly globalized act of devotion?  An irresistible treat for the ever spectacle-hungry media industry an curious onlookers?.</p>
<p class="ital">Quite possibly, all the above and more. As we will argue further down, there is an epistemic difference between the empirical-devotional experience and the narratives of the Kumbh Mela as a whole which can be read also as a major political event. This tension invites for the reflection regarding why to take such hassle (both as a pilgrim and as an organizer) to make it happen. The answer, whatever it might be, will place us deep inside the rationality of the irrational in which these type of ritual still matter. Such an intimate approach reveals interesting dynamics in the struggle to conciliate the opposed forces of tradition and modernity in a multi-cultural society.</p>
</div>
    </body>
</html>
